                          # infintive
               
               
               this is a infinite type .
               
               
            #THE TO-INFINITIVE AS THE SUBJECT OF THE SENTENCE:

1.To know        her is to love her.
2.To visit       the Grand Canyon is my life-long dream.
3.To understand  statistics, that is our aim.



         #IN THIS PATTERN, THE TO-INFINITIVE FOLLOWS A NOUN OR PRONOUN.
         
         
 
1.The children need a garden   to play in.
2.I would like a sandwich      to eat.
3.I don't have anything        to wear.
4.Would you like something     to drink?
He encouraged his friends	to vote for him.
Remind me 			to give Julia a call.
He bought some flowers 	to give to his wife.
He locked the door 		to keep everyone out.
hey gave him an opportunity 	to escape.
He was annoyed by her refusal  to answer.
I have no desire 		to be rich.
There is no need 		to shout.
We welcome our readers 	to get into the boat of imagination

when new floods fill the reservoir 	to almost overflow,


     #SUBJECT + TO BE + ADJECTIVE + (FOR/OF SOMEONE) + TO-INFINITIVE + (REST OF SENTENCE)


1.the dog is naughty         TO DESTROY our couch
2.It is important for Jake   TO BE patient with his little brother


The to-infinitive to make a comment or judgement

        #TO USE THE TO-INFINITIVE WHEN MAKING A COMMENT OR JUDGEMENT ABOUT A NOUN, THE PATTERN IS:
        
	#SUBJECT + TO BE + NOUN PHRASE + TO-INFINITIVE


It was a stupid place 	   				to park.
That isa dangerous way 				to behave.
What you said 	was a rude thing 			to say.
This is the right thing 				to do.
Those were the wrong kind of eggs 			to buy.
Jim is the best person 				to hire.


				#The to-infinitive with adverbs
				

There's too much sugar 		to put in this bowl.
I had too many books 			to carry.
This soup is too hot 			to eat.
She was too tired 			to work.
He arrived too late			to see the actors.
I've had enough food 			to eat.
She's old enough 			to make up her own mind.
There isn't enough snow 		to ski on.
You're not old enough 			to have grand-children!
“Sandra is too tired 			to go out.” 
				
				#THE ZERO INFINITIVE AFTER VERBS OF PERCEPTION

				#WITH VERBS OF PERCEPTION, THE PATTERN IS VERB + OBJECT + ZERO INFINITIVE.
				
He saw her 			fall from the cliff.
We heard them 			close the door.
They saw us 			walk toward the lake.


    !

                           # THE ZERO INFINITIVE AFTER THE EXPRESSION "HAD BETTER"
                           
                           
Examples

We had better 				take some warm clothing.
She had better 			ask him not to come.
We had better 				reserve a room in the hotel.
You'd better 				give me your address.
They had better 			work harder on their homework.

				#infinitive after adjective
				
“It’s nice 			to see you.” 
“It is sometimes harder 	to walk quickly than to jog at a comfortable pace.” 
Unfortunately, I was unable 	to work for over a week.
I'm really tired. I'm ready	to go to bed.
We were happy 			to come to the end of our journey.
John was surprised 		to see me.
It's easy 			to play the piano, but it's very difficult to play well.
He spoke so quickly that it was impossible 	to understand him.
She was right 			to complain about that hotel.
You were clever		to find the answer so quickly.
  
                   	#AFTER MODAL VERBS (‘CAN, WILL, COULD, MIGHT, MUST, SHOULD’, ETC.):

“My father can cook very well.”
“You mustn’t smoke in here.”

				#We use the preposition for to show who these adjectives refer to:
				
It was difficult for us 		to hear what she was saying.
It is easy for you 			to criticise other people.
It was common for rivers of the Chozla Kingdom to run with flood waters


					#WITH THE OTHER ADJECTIVES, WE USE THE PREPOSITION OF:

It's kind of you 		to help.
It would be silly of him 	to spend all his money.


						#forms of the infinitive 
						
						
						
						ACTIVE					 PASSIVE
						
	simple tense				to+v1					to+be +v3
	
	
	continous tense			to+be+doing				     -
	
	
	perfect tense				to+have+done				to+have been +v3
	
	
	perfect continous tense		to+have been +doing			     -
				
				
				
				#WE FORM THE PERFECT INFINITIVE WITH TO HAVE + THE -ED FORM OF A VERB.
				
				#THE PERFECT INFINITIVE OFTEN REFERS TO THINGS THAT MIGHT HAVE HAPPENED IN THE PAST:
				
HE PRETENDED 			TO HAVE LOST HER NUMBER

She claims			to have met a number of famous people, but I don’t believe her. 


		#THE PERFECT INFINITIVE CAN REFER TO SOMETHING THAT WILL BE COMPLETED AT A POINT IN THE FUTURE:


We hope 		to have finished the building works by the end of March.
he pretended 		to have seen the film

						#SUBJECT + A.V + ADJ + TO HAVE +V3+DETAILS
						
						
i am glad that i have met you there 			 --->	  i am glad           to have met you there

i am glad that i have passed the exam			---->	  i am glad		to have passed the exam

i am happy that i have done my job			---->	  i am happy		to have done my job

he is unsure if he had bought a good mobile		--->	  he is unsure 	to have bought a good mobile

						#S+V+(DETAILS)+TO HAVE +V3+DETAILS
						
						
						
he claims that he has known everything				-->	he claims to have known everything

we hope that we will have competed the work by this month		-->	we hope to have completed this work by this end of month

they seemed that they had won the match				-->	they seemed to have won the match

raja expected that rani would have have submitted the assignment	-->	raja expected rani to have submitted the assignment



							#S + M.V + HAVE + V3 + DETAILS
							
							
they could have played well to reach the final

she should have got your permission to go home

he ought to have supported his parents (ought model verb only have to)

they might have reached home by now
				
				
						#s + mv +not + have +v3 +details


i should not have helped you

i must not have watched movies


						#VERBS FOLLOWED BY GERUNDS OR INFINITIVES
						

In the English language there are verbs followed by infinitives (They agreed to come), other verbs followed by gerunds (Did you enjoy flying?) and there are also verbs followed by both gerunds and infinitives (She began to work - She began working).

						#1. EXAMPLES OF VERBS FOLLOWED BY INFINITIVE ONLY:
						
						
agree, appear, arrange, ask, choose, decide, demand, encourage, fail, forbid, force, hope, instruct, invite, learn, manage, offer, order, permit, persuade, plan, prepare, pretend, promise, refuse, remind, seem, swear, warn

He decided to study at university. 
We hoped to find it.
Did he seem to like it? 
I ordered my son to send it.

				#2. EXPRESSIONS AND PHRASAL VERBS FOLLOWED BY INFINITIVE:
					
be about, do one's best, make up one's mind, set out, turn out

He was about to start. 
I did my best to learn it. 
I haven't made up my mind to start yet. 
It turned out to be your car.
We set out to cut the tree.

					#3. EXAMPLES OF VERBS FOLLOWED BY GERUND ONLY:
					
admit, consider, delay, dislike, enjoy, escape, excuse, finish, forgive, imagine, insist, keep, mind, miss, practise, prevent, risk, suggest, understand

She admitted telling him. 
Did you escape writing the test? 
I don't want to risk coming late.



					4. Expressions and phrasal verbs followed by gerund:
be against, be interested in, can't stand, can't help, care for, give up, look forward to, it's no use/good, it's worth

I can't stand waiting for hours. 
I can't help laughing.
Don't give up studying this chapter. 
It's no use working so late. 
Is the film worth seeing?

				5. Examples of verbs followed by gerunds and infinitives.

A. With the same meaning:
begin, advise, allow, can't bear, continue, intend, it requires, it needs, it wants, permit, recommend, start

Did you continue driving/to drive? 
He can't bear smoking/to smoke.

If the verbs advise, allow, permit, recommend are used with the indirect object, they are followed by infinitive. If not, gerund must be used.


They didn't allow us to eat there. They didn't allow eating there.
She recommended John to read this book. She recommended reading this book.

After the expressions it needs/requires/wants gerund is more common than infinitive.
The car needs washing/to be washed. The flower wants watering/to be watered.

                                  #B.The verbs that have a different meaning with gerunds and infinitives.

Remember
I remember watching the match. It was fantastic.
We use gerund to talk about earlier actions.

I remembered to watch the match. And so I sat down and switched on the TV.
The infinitive is used to talk about following actions.

Try
I tried calling him because I needed to test my new mobile phone.  (I made an experiment with my mobile.)
I tried to call him because I needed to meet him. (I made an attempt to get in touch with him.)

							#Love/like/hate/prefer
In the conditional tense these verbs are used with the infinitive.
I'd like to drive. I'd love to drive. I'd hate to drive. I'd prefer to drive.
In other tenses they are used with gerunds and infinitives, but both forms have a slightly different meaning.
I like driving. I love driving. I hate driving. I prefer driving.
I like to drive. I love to drive. I hate to drive. I prefer to drive.

								#Compare:
I like going to the cinema. (I enjoy it.)
I like to go to the dentist twice a year. (I don't enjoy it, but I go there, because it is good for my health.)
I hate ironing. (It is my least favourite activity. I never enjoy it.)
I hate to iron on Sundays. (I don't mind ironing, but not on Sundays.)

								#Go on
After dinner he went on showing us his photos.
The gerund is used when we want to say that a previous activity continues.
He gave us a lecture on the Greek history. And then he went on to show us his photos from Greece.
The infinitive is used when we want to describe an activity that follows a previous action and is somehow connected to it.

								#Stop
								
I stopped smoking. (This means that I do not smoke anymore.)
I stopped to smoke. (I made a pause to have a cigarette.)

								#Mean
								
I didn't mean to hurt you. (I say that I didn't do it on purpose.)
We can go to Spain. But it means spending more money. (In this sentence we describe the consequences.)

								#Be afraid
								
She was afraid of getting married. (A marriage is something that frightens her.)
She was afraid to marry Bill. (She doesn't mind getting married, but the marriage with Bill frightens her.)

								#I'm sorry
								
I'm sorry for telling you. (I apologize for a previuous action.)
I'm sorry to tell you that your flight will be delayed. (I apologize for something that will happen.)
The infinitive with this expression can also mean sorrow:
I'm sorry to hear that your wife is ill.
Bare infinitive (without to)

We usually use infinitives with to in the English language: 

I want to go. I told him to come.

					#The infinitive without to (bare infinitive) is used as follows.

1. After modal verbs - can, may, must, needn't, dare...
I can bring it. 
He may take it. 
You must buy it. 
We needn't open it. 
He dared not tell me.

			#The verbs dare and need can also be followed by the infinitive with to. In such sentences we use do to make
			 questions and negatives.
			 
			 
I dared not call you. x I didn't dare to call you.
These two sentences have the same meaning, only the form is different.

You needn't listen to him. (You don't have to listen to him.) x You don't need to listen to him. (There is no need to listen.)
These two sentences are different in the form and meaning, too.

2. After the verbs of senses - feel, hear, see, watch.
We saw you swim. 
I heard her sing.
			#It is more common, however, to use -ing form in English after the verbs of senses.

We saw you swimming. 
I heard her singing.
But: In the passive voice the form is different.
S
he was seen to cry.

				#3. After some more expressions - let, make, would rather, had better, help.

Don't let him go. 
She made me drive. 
I'd rather finish it. 
You'd better start. 
I helped them carry it.

				#The verb help can also be followed by the infinitiv with to.
				
I helped them to carry it.
But with the passive voice we use the following form.

I was made to drive. He was let to go.



    I am confident of winning the race.
    She insisted on coming with me.
    You have no moral right to question me.
    It is wrong to judge people.
    I hope to get good marks.
    He is eager to leave.
    They need someone to take care of their dogs when they are away.
    I warned him to be careful.
    I expect my brother to call at six.
    She longs to meet her family.
    I enjoy walking in the moonshine.
    I was surprised to find him there.

			
							
							
							


  
	
	
	
				
				
				










